{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue233;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{circle\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid102\'01\uc0\u9702 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12560\viewh16000\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1 - Portrait Henry\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Hello everyone.\
Please let me introduce you to Henry Carton de Wiart, a famous Belgian personality. He is a key component of our case-study.\
Part of a large noble family, he has been minister several times, Prime Minister, president of many councils and also a lawyer and a writer\'85 And I\'92m sure some of you know that the belgian city Li\'e8ge is also called \'91La Cit\'e9 ardente\'92. This nickname comes from one of his book. \
We could go for a while, because Henry has been very active during his life\'85\
But maybe you already see our point: there is enough information about him to observe how linked open data document his life.\
In the next slides, I will present with my colleague Ettore a close-reading analysis of linked data about that guy.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa280\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf0 2 - Close-reading?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Usually, when we speak about Linked Data we first think about stuff like Big Data, data mining or network analysis... in one word: distant-reading approaches.\
For our presentation today, we wanted to reverse the process and choose something a little more experimental: trying a close-reading analysis of Linked Data.\
Currently, there is a lot of discussions about how archives should adapt their archival descriptions to linked data principles. However, maintaining data is known to be one of the huge challenges we\'92ll have to face.\
So, instead of observing global characteristics of linked data resources, we decided to focus on one single entity and its data quality.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa280\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
3 - \'91Continuum\'92\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Linked data fit in a landscape of pre-existing resources.\
Online resources about Henry consist of a continuum, going from very structured data to unstructured data.\
At one end, we have the most structured data, which correspond to linked data, namely Wikidata, Viaf, DBpedia, etc.\
And at the other end are situated less structured data, like the national biography of Henry.\
In between, we find RDF triples from several archives and libraries, archival descriptions in XML or Wikpedia pages.\
Our intention was to test and confront these various sources, to observe to what extent they were consistent and complementary?\
Now I give the floor to Ettore, who will begin with the linked open data cloud.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa280\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf0 5. Manual triplification\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf0 After this first exploration with the help of Alex, we wanted to take a close look at the data contained in less structured resources.\
We try to do that by acting as if we were an archivist, who would like to inject biographical information into the Linked Data cloud, in other words, a manual triplification.\
We used three different types of resources: an EAC and an EAD files from the State Archives and the national biography about Henry.\
During this triplification process, we took all sentences and tried to extract and translate every single piece of information about Henry into RDF triples (subject, property, object). \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa280\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf0 6. Limits\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf0 During this triplification process, which results in several hundreds statements, we observed several limits.\
We have identified three types: limits related to the data, to the triple structure and to the vocabulary:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The data\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The central question is the granularity:\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl1\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9702 
\f0 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Besides practical aspects and available human resources, at what level of detail should we describe Henry and his life?\
\ls2\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9702 
\f0 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Furthermore, if we\'92re in archival context, should we use only the biographical or historical section of the EAD or also include other levels of description? For example, letters exchanged with other personalities can help to get a list of people connected to Henry. \
\ls2\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9702 
\f0 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
In addition, when we start describing someone's life, several other persons are directly or indirectly related to this person. We may also include professions and main dates for his family, his brothers but also cousins, etc. How far should we go to value this contextual information in the form of triples?\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The triple structure\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl1\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9702 
\f0 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Some limits derive from the format itself. For example, the reification principle, when the translation of one single sentence would result in 5 or 6 different triples.\
\ls2\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9702 
\f0 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Additionally, while a piece of knowledge expressed by words in a biography, like 'Henry had 4 brothers', it has to be inferred from others statements in the linked data language (for example counting the number of 'brother of').\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The vocabulary\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl1\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9702 
\f0 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
To express facts about someone in RDF triples, we need a property to define the semantic relationship between a subject and an object. For example, 'Henry / occupation / writer.' Several RDF vocabularies can be used to specify this relationship. It means that the nature of these vocabularies determines what can be express. \
\ls2\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9702 
\f0 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Again, we have noticed some limits related to granularity. Thus, according to the vocabulary chosen, we were able to express that Henry Carton de Wiart was an author of a book OR we could precise he was the author of the preface. In a family context, depending on what vocabulary we used, we can precise someone is an uncle, OR just describe the fact that is a relative. In this case, we would loose details and have uncle and cousin described by the same vague property.\
\ls2\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9702 
\f0 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
To sum up, the more precise is a vocabulary, the more we can express. For example in the field of social relationship, one vocabulary called 'relationship' allows us to qualify 'acquaintance of', 'friend of', 'a close friend of', 'lost contact with', 'has met', etc. However, sometimes it appears quite difficult to evaluate the specific nature of a relationship between two dead people... \
\ls2\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9702 
\f0 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
During the triplification process, most data has been translated in RDF triples without issues. In a few cases, we lacked vocabularies terms to express more atypical statements, such as details about his personality, or mentions about his activist activities in the context of social struggles. Obviously, it raises the question of the long tail\'85 to what extent should we create new properties for each specific case?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa280\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf0 7. What if\'85?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf0 So, let\'92s imagine an institution like the State Archives of Belgium, with million of data collected for years, wishes to make them more visible and shareable by publishing them in the LOD cloud. \
However, as seen in previous slide, some properties are currently missing to express some concepts.\
There would be 2 main options in this case:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}firstly, \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
the enrichment of pre-existing vocabularies, such as {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://schema.org/Person"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 http://schema.org/Person}}\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}secondly, \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
the creation of new linked open vocabularies, with all the efforts that require. We can think about the Records in Context Ontology initiative, for example.\
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 One alternative would be the injection of data directly in Wikidata. \
In that case, the institution could suggest the addition of new properties and take part in ongoing discussions.\
}